Hello! My name is Hemanth and I will be talking about pneumonia. I will be answering the questions such as what is pneuomia, where and how it is caused, what are its symptoms and risk factors and when to get tested. So lets get started, what is pneumonia? Pneumonia is an inflammation of one or both lungs, typically due to a bacterial, viral, or fungal infection. With pneumonia, the tiny air sacs inside the lungs called alveoli get filled with fluid or pus. This can cause symptoms such as coughing, chest pain, and breathing difficulties. Pneumonia can be considered as contagious as it's usually caused by an infection, most commonly bacteria and viruses, which are both contagious. Pneumonia is further classified according to where or how it was acquired: Hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) is type of bacterial pneumonia that is acquired during a hospital stay. It can be more serious than other types, as the bacteria involved may be more resistant to antibiotics. Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) refers to pneumonia that’s acquired outside of a medical or institutional setting. The most common cause of community-acquired bacterial pneumonia is the pneumococcus. Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is when people who are using a ventilator get pneumonia. Aspiration pneumonia wherein inhaling bacteria or virus such as COVID19 into your lungs from food, drink, or saliva causes pneumonia. Talking about the science behind how pneumonia occurs, it all starts when a bacteria,virus or a fungal agent enters our lungs and infects certain cells. As an immediate response to the foreign body, our immune system causes inflammation at the infected site due to accumulation of pus. Now coming to the symptoms of pneumonia, these can be mild to life threatening. They can include: cough,fever,sweating,chills,shortness of breath,chest pain,fatigue,loss of appetite,nausea and headaches. These symptoms can also vary according to age. Infants generally appear to have no symptoms while children may have fast breathing or wheezing. Older adults usually have milder symptoms. Now talking about the risk factors, anyone can acquire this disease but certain groups do have a higher risk. These groups include: infants from birth to 2 years old,people aged 65 or above,people with weakened immune systems due to:pregnancy,HIV or other chronic medical conditions,people who’ve been recently or are currently hospitalized,people who’ve had a brain disorder, which can affect the ability to swallow or cough, people who’ve been regularly exposed to lung irritants,people who live in a crowded living environment, such as a prison or nursing home,people who smoke,use drugs or drink. Moving on with our discussion, its very important to know when to see a doctor and get diagnosed. One should see a doctor if any the aforementioned symptoms is persistent for an abnormal amount of time. People in the high risk groups as mentioned earlier should look out for these symptoms and consult a doctor immediately as pneumonia can quickly turn into a life-threatening condition. I shall now call upon Surya to tell us how pneumonia can be diagonsed. Thank you.
